# A monadic task queue semantics

This note describes the monadic task queue semantics used in our
formalism and basic arguments as to its correctness and
implementation.

We are considering switching from a pi calculus formalism to a
formalism based on task queues for our model of the Android
platform. The problem is that the kinds of things we want to reason
about involve sequencing of events that happen from user input and
network responses.

How should we define our task queue?

I think we need:
    - A queue of messages, which carry data optionally
    - A new way to post things to the queue
    - A set of things that can generate messages (the UI)
    - A sane way to post new things to the queue

One thing that I wonder is what the "type" of the queue is.

How does this happen in Android?

## Android formalism

In Android you would write a program like this:

    current_contact = None;
    
    void onCreate() {
        Spinner s = new Spinner(contacts);
        spinner.handleClickSpin(handleClick);
        Button b = new Button();
        b.handleClick(this);
    }
    
    void handleClick(index) {
        current_contact = Some contacts[index];
    }
    
    void onClick(v) {
        {{ current_contact in contacts }}
        if (current_contact != None) {
            Packet p = new Request();
            p.payload = 
            send_on_network(current_contact);
        }
    }

This program creates a spinner, creates a button, and declassifies the
current contact (rather, the fact that the current contact is in the
set of contacts) upon the click of the button.

How can we express this in our formalism?

## Bulding a message queue

The main thing I'm trying to think about is that we should maintain a
process pool, which can process messages, where these messages are
bound to identifiers, and the messages carry a certain payload.  I
think it's best if the messages all carry first order data in their
payloads, but I don't think there would be any inherent problem with
carrying closues.

## Message types

So what is a message on the queue?  It's an identifier, plus a
payload, which is an inhabitant of a type of first order data:

    id * ftau

Where `id` is the type of messages, an identifier, which has the usual
equality operations and reasoning principles, and `ftau` is a first
order type.

## Message handler types

So then what is the type of a message handler?

    id -> ftau -> M tau

Meaning that the handler takes an identifier, an argument, and
produces a computation resulting in tau.  Why a computation, rather
than something else, what's the hidden state?  Well first, there's a
store, that the computation can reference, but also the computation
can add handlers to the queue, and can also send new messages on the
queue.  Of note is that certain computations on the queu probably
shouldn't be able to do things like generate button clicks.  The
semantics for the task queue will be such that everything is processed
to completion before another task runs.

## Installing a handler

Installing a handler: give me an id, and a handler, and I will put it
into the environment.  If there is already a handler for this I will
replace it, since we just maintain a handler map.

    install_handler : id -> (id -> ftau -> M tau) -> M unit

^^ Want the `id`s to be the same in both of these, can use dependent
type to enforce this constraint.

How do we know that the task queue has a correct type environment?  I
think we can use a dependent context that maps names to types and
prove correctness with respect to that.

## Queuing a task

    send : message -> M unit

## Installing a GUI element

    spinner_handler : id -> Int Option -> M unit
    button_handler : id -> Unit -> M unit
    checkbox_handler : id -> Bool -> M unit
    
    new_spinner : id -> spinner_handler -> M unit
    new_button : id -> button_handler -> M unit
    new_checkbox : id -> checkbox_handler -> M unit
    new_text : M tb ref  <-- slightly different

## The store

    new : M (ftau ref)
    read : ftau ref -> M ftau
    write : ftau ref -> ftau -> M unit

## Interacting with the outside world

We reserve a special channel for communicating with the outside world.
To talk to the network, we reserve the channel `net` to talk to the
outside, which we can address as follows:

    send(net,"hello")

We can also receive on a reserved set of network channels.

# Abstract machine state

    < H , M , G , S >

- `H` is the process handler pool, which is really a map, meaning it
  has type id -> handler in our formalism

- `M` is the list of messages currently on the queue

- `G` is the set of GUI elements in play at the current time and set
  of things they could generate, specifically it's a set of id * set
  things, where set is the set of possible payloads they could carry

- `S` is the store for the machine, which is addressed through
  references

## Starting things off

We assume that there is a `main` handler through which control flow
starts, which sets up handlers.

# Sample program rewritten in this formalism

    let spinner_handler current_con _ id =
        current_con <- contacts[id]
    
    let button_handler current_con _ = 
        let contact = ! current_con
        send(net,contact)
    
    let onCreate =
        let current_con = new string
        let spinh = spinner_handler current_con
        let bh = button_handler current_con
        install_handler spn spinh;
        install_handler btn bh;




